---
layout: post
title: Why Become a FrontEnd Developer?
---
My journey of becoming a web developer started during my senior year in high school. While working on the yearbook, I was tasked with updating the school’s website by adding the latest pictures and announcements regarding senior activities. Since the site was powered by WordPress, it was fairly easy to navigate and change the settings and content. I was intrigued so I bought a few HTML/CSS educational books yet I did not attempt to build an actual website until I was in college.
<br/>

During my sophomore year, I built my first website from scratch. It was very basic, had too many clashing colors and inconsistent size images. After completing an Introduction to Computer Science class, I lost interest in the subject due to struggling with certain concepts. Throughout the years since I graduated college, I have utilized WordPress and SquareSpace to manage  websites of companies I have worked for. However, I still believed it would be best if I learned how to build and manage websites on my own.

Also, I had noticed the evolution of programming languages that were now being used to create more interactive web applications. Thus, once again I resumed my education on web development by taking basic web classes and reading instructional web development books. Yet I realized to truly grasp what I was learning I had to practice writing actual code. Luckily there are various interactive coding courses online such as [CodeAcademy](https://www.codeacademy.com) and [FreeCodeCamp](https://www.freecodecamp.com) which I used to learn basic programming languages. However, I wanted a more structured course that went beyond teaching programming or design methods. Last year, I came across BLOC while researching coding bootcamps. I found its curriculum, mentorship program and career advice profound aspects that could give students an advantage in joining the tech industry.

<br/>
  Currently in my 9th week of BLOC, I have learned more than I could imagine. Beyond learning programming languages and markup, I have developed knowledge on my operating system (MAC), how to navigate, manage and update files through the command line and utilize Git/GitHub in order to share projects with others. At first, I had struggled remembering all the commands and the order in which to place them. For instance, in order to properly push updated material to the remote repository: `git add .  git commit -m “message” git push origin branch name git checkout master git merge branchname git push`.
  <br/>

  However, after completing several exercises and assignments multiple times I was able to finally grasp understanding. Furthermore, by taking notes on each lesson and assignment I am able to use them as reference whenever I have a problem. My biggest challenge in BLOC so far has been mastering JavaScript. Basic syntax, operators, loops and statements of control flow were easy to grasp however, I struggled understanding and manipulating Document Object Manipulation(DOM). Completing small assignments from the following books such as _JavaScript and JQuery: Interactive Front-End Web Development by Jon Duckett_  and _Eloquent JavaScript by Marijn Haverbeke_ helped clarify concepts of the DOM tree, nodes, event listeners and handlers. I have enjoyed building Bloc Jams music application and look forward to expanding the project by adding Angular JS.
